HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: The two-state
solution is the only way to
achieve a just
and lasting peace between
Israelis and Palestinians.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Secretary of
State John
Kerry warns Israeli Prime
Minister Netanyahu
that his continued support of
settlements
in the West Bank undermines
peace in the region.
Also ahead: Donald Trump's
promise to drain
the special interest swamp of
Washington.
Can the president-elect succeed
where previous
politicians failed?
Plus, a banner year for
television, from a
story of young rappers trying to
make it in
Atlanta to Louis C.K.'s surprise
Web series.
ALAN SEPINWALL, Uproxx: I
haven't even heard
of some of these shows, and it's
my job to
watch television. That's how
much great stuff
is out there. It's ridiculous.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: From
president-elect Trump
today, an announcement of new
jobs coming
to the U.S. They're from telecom
giant Sprint
and OneWeb, a satellite firm
that plans to
offer low-cost Internet access
around the
world. Mr. Trump spoke at his
Mar-a-Lago resort
in Florida, and said it's thanks
to a Japanese
billionaire who has pledged to
invest $50
billion dollars in the U.S.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: We have
a combination of Sprint for
5,000 jobs, and
that's coming from all over
world, and they're
coming back into the U.S. which
is a nice
change, and also OneWeb, 3,000
jobs. It's
a new company.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Separately,
the president-elect
accused President Obama of
making inflammatory
statements and throwing up
roadblocks. He
tweeted: "Thought it was going
to be a smooth
transition. Not."
Later, though, he told reporters
that it's
all going "very, very smoothly."
President Obama has designated
new national
monuments in Utah and Nevada
this evening.
The Bears Ears Monument in Utah
covers more
than 1.3 million acres of tribal
lands, with
an estimated 100,000
archaeological sites.
In Nevada, the Gold Butte
National Monument
will cover 300,000 acres. It's
near where
rancher Cliven Bundy led a
standoff with federal
agents in 2014.
There was talk today of a
nationwide cease-fire
in Syria, worked out by Turkey
and Russia.
The state-run Turkish news
agency reported
it's happening, but the two
governments wouldn't
confirm it. Syrian rebel leaders
called such
talk premature. Meanwhile,
Turkey said again
it is still opposed to keeping
Bashar al-Assad
in power. Russia supports the
Syrian president.
Russian search teams have
recovered the second
flight recorder from a Russian
military plane
that crashed into the Black Sea.
All 92 people
on board were killed in Sunday's
disaster.
Crews pulled the second recorder
from the
water today, and investigators
voiced hope
that its data is intact.
MAN (through translator): The
handles are
not broken, which is the first
sign showing
that probably it isn't damaged
inside. If
there wasn't any impact of the
saltwater,
then the tape will be in a good
condition.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Two Russian
news outlets
reported that just before the
crash, a cockpit
crew member yelled about a
problem with the
wing flaps and then shouted that
the plane
was falling.
German authorities have detained
a second
suspect in the attack on a
Berlin Christmas
market last week. Prosecutors
say the Tunisian
man was a contact of Anis Amri.
He is believed
to have driven the truck that
killed 12 people.
Amri was shot dead last week by
police Italy.
It's unclear what role the new
suspect might
have played in the Berlin
attack.
Greece says it plans to build
smaller detention
centers to improve living
conditions for migrants
on outlying islands. The Greek
migration minister
the goal is to reduce crime and
speed up the
asylum process for some 15,000
people. Meanwhile,
another 48 migrants were rescued
today between
the Greek island of Chios and
the Turkish
coast. They were packed on to a
rubber dinghy.
Back in this country, the man
convicted in
a church massacre in South
Carolina says he
will not present witnesses or
evidence, as
he faces a possible death
sentence. Dylann
Roof spoke as his own attorney
at a hearing
in Charleston today. The
punishment phase
of his hate crimes trial begins
next week.
The jury already found Roof
guilty of killing
nine black worshipers in 2015.
Wall Street sold off today,
after a sharp
drop in home resales for
November. The Dow
Jones industrial average lost
111 points to
close at 19833. The Nasdaq fell
nearly 49
points, and the S&P 500 dropped
almost 19.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the increasingly
complex relationship between the
U.S. and
Israel; what will it take for
Donald Trump
to keep his promise to drain the
Washington
swamp?; a look back at 2016
through the lens
of science; and much more.
swamp?; a look back at 2016
through the lens
of science; and much more.
Tensions flared again today
between the Obama
administration and the Israeli
government
of Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu. The
verbal fireworks came after the
United States
abstained from voting on a
United Nations
Security Council resolution
which condemned
the continued construction of
settlements
on the West Bank.
Today, Secretary of State John
Kerry joined
the fray.
Margaret Warner begins.
MARGARET WARNER: It was a
parting warning
shot that pulled no punches:
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: Friends
need to tell each other the hard
truths, and
friendships require mutual
respect.
MARGARET WARNER: Secretary of
State John Kerry
today blamed Israel's -- quote
-- "most right-wing
government ever" for expanding
Jewish settlements
into Palestinian areas in a way
that will
make a two-state solution
impossible to achieve.
JOHN KERRY: Here is a
fundamental reality:
If the choice is one state,
Israel can either
be Jewish or democratic. It
cannot be both.
And it won't ever really be at
peace.
MARGARET WARNER: That, he said,
is why the
Obama administration chose not
to veto last
Friday's U.N. Security Council
condemning
settlement building.
JOHN KERRY: The vote in the
United Nations
was about preserving the
two-state solution.
That's what we were standing up
for: Israel's
future as a Jewish and
democratic state, living
side by side in peace and
security with its
neighbors.
MARGARET WARNER: Kerry, who
spent years trying
to broker Israeli-Palestinian
peace, firmly
denied Israel's charges that the
U.S. helped
draft the resolution.
Kerry pointed to the relentless
growth of
Jewish settlements east of the
1967 border
into formerly Palestinian
territory of the
West Bank captured by Israel in
the Six-Day
War. There are 270,000 more
Jewish settlers
in the West Bank today than in
the early 1990s,
he noted, 100,000 more than when
President
Obama took office.
JOHN KERRY: It's not just a
question of the
overall amount of land available
in the West
Bank; it's whether the land can
be connected
or is broken up into small
parcels like Swiss
cheese that could never
constitute a real
state.
MARGARET WARNER: Israel's prime
minister fired
back, saying the speech focused
obsessively
on settlements.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, Israeli
Prime Minister:
I must express my deep
disappointment with
the speech today of John Kerry,
a speech that
was almost as unbalanced as the
anti-Israel
resolution passed at the U.N.
last week.
MARGARET WARNER: Earlier, a
Jerusalem committee
did delay approving nearly 500
new Israeli
homes in its disputed eastern
area.
Today's exchange closes out a
rocky eight
years between the Obama
administration and
Netanyahu. This White House has
given Israel
more military aid than any
other. Yet last
year Netanyahu went around the
White House
to try to get Congress to
undercut the Iran
nuclear deal. Netanyahu is now
counting on
the next U.S. president.
Last week, president-elect Trump
called for
the U.S. to veto the U.N.
resolution. And
before Kerry's speech today, he
tweeted: "We
cannot continue to let Israel be
treated with
such total disdain and
disrespect. Stay strong
Israel. January 20 is fast
approaching."
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: I love
Israel. I love Israel.
MARGARET WARNER: Mr. Trump has
pledged to
move the U.S. Embassy from Tel
Aviv to Jerusalem.
And he plans to nominate David
Friedman, a
firm supporter of expanding
settlements, as
U.S. ambassador to Israel.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For more on
Kerry's speech,
the U.N. Security Council vote
and the state
of U.S.-Israel relations, we get
the views
of two people with extensive
diplomatic experience
in the Middle East.
Retired Ambassador James Jeffrey
was assistant
secretary of state for Near
Eastern affairs
and was U.S. ambassador to Iraq
from 2010
to 2012. He's now at the
Washington Institute
for Near East Policy. Ilan
Goldenberg was
part of Secretary Kerry's
negotiating team
during the 2013-2014 final
status talks. He's
now at the Center for a New
American Security.
Gentlemen, I want to ask you
both.
Ilan Goldenberg, I want to start
with you.
What's your reaction to Kerry's
speech today?
ILAN GOLDENBERG, Former State
Department Official:
Well, the speech, it would have
been, I think,
a more meaningful speech perhaps
two years
ago.
And at the end of the day, it's
sort of a
swan song at the very end, but
there are still
some very valuable things in it.
I think Kerry
led really what was only the
third time ever
that we have had final status
negotiations
between Israelis and
Palestinians over the
entire course of the history of
the conflict.
So I think he had things the
add. I think
it was also important in the
context of the
incoming administration that,
you know, openly
questioning whether or not we
will continue
to actually support the
two-state solution,
given who they have at least
nominated to
be the next ambassador to
Israel.
And in this context, I think
more than anything
what shown through, and as
somebody who worked
for Kerry on these issues both
in the Senate
and at the State Department, was
the man clearly
deeply cares about the issue. He
clearly cares
about the future of the Jewish
state. And
he was really willing to go out
there, despite
a lot of criticism, and say
this.
And I also thought the other
thing I would
say about the speech was it
really -- it was
much more balanced, I would
argue, than the
U.N. Security Council
resolution, really did
address both the question of
Palestinian incitement
and support for violence, which
is a key problem
and a key obstacle in the future
of the two-state
solution, but it also gave, I
think, the most
eloquent explanation we have
seen of what
the problem with the settlement
enterprise
is.
You can't have a situation where
you have
90,000 Israeli settlers now
living outside
areas that even Israel
acknowledges will be
part of a future Palestinian
state, and you
try the remove just a few
hundred of them,
as Israel did a couple months
ago, and is
still debating, in this deep
settlement Dimona,
and it causes this huge
political crisis.
How are you ever going to get to
a situation
where you can actually get to a
two-state
solution or move the types of --
do the types
of population movements you're
going to have
to do to get to that agreement?
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Jeffrey,
your reactions?
JAMES JEFFREY, Former U.S.
Ambassador to Iraq:
Well, let me start with the
good.
Kerry finished off by a
six-point way forward
which reflects longstanding U.S.
policy, but
it basically was done in a
balanced and comprehensive
way. So that's on the good side.
Less good is the language of his
explanation
of what the United States was
doing in the
U.N. and what our basic policies
are. Ilan
is right. Kerry was much more
temperate than
that frankly crazy U.N.
resolution, but he
still made the same error, which
is to blame
the entire problem in the peace
process on
Israel and these settlements,
and that isn't
the only problem, and, secondly,
to elevate
this Israeli-Palestinian dispute
to one of
the key threats to security in
the Middle
East.
Good grief. We just saw what
happened in Syria
with Aleppo. We have ISIS still
on the road.
We have Russia intervening in
the region.
This is not on anybody's
top-level priority
list in the Middle East. Why the
administration
at this late hour went into this
thing the
way it did, totally exasperating
the Israelis,
is beyond me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Jeffrey,
there have
been U.N. Security Council
resolutions that
have come and gone for years and
years. Why
did this one have the type of
diplomatic ripple
effect that it's having?
JAMES JEFFREY: Good question.
And I have been back all the way
to 1947 and
U.N. Resolution 181. Never have
I seen language
like this that the U.S. let go
through, illegal
acts by the Israelis, flagrant
violation of
international law and on and on
and on, imperiling
peace.
I went back to Resolution 660,
which was what
the U.N. did when Saddam marched
into Kuwait.
That resolution is not as strong
as this one.
It's that kind of blaming Israel
for everything
thing that is emotional, has
launched this
reaction in Israel, and it will
not help the
cause of peace.
When Palestinian leader Abbas
gave his reaction
to Kerry's speech, he gave the
usual boilerplate
about how, if Israel stops the
settlements,
we will continue to work
together under international
law.
Now that resolution is
international law,
and it basically condemns the
major Israeli
negotiating point, trading land
for peace,
into the category of illegal
occupation totally.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ilan
Goldenberg, is there
a significant change in the
relationship between
the United States and Israel? As
Margaret
pointed out in her tape, we just
approved
$38 billion in military aid.
ILAN GOLDENBERG: Well, first, I
want to just
go back to the last point Jim
made. And I
agreed with a lot of what he has
to say.
But I don't actually think that
this resolution
fundamentally changes
international law or
international standing. I think
actually the
language in it comes directly
from the U.N.
Security Council Resolution 465,
which used
the exact same language when
discussing settlements.
Obviously, there's problems with
the language
and the fact that, you know, the
resolution
doesn't differentiate between
East Jerusalem
and settlements that are deep in
the West
Bank. And I think ideally it
would be good
to have that kind of language.
But it's just not true that
language doesn't
exist in any U.N. Security
Council resolution.
So, you can't get the Security
Council to
agree to it. So, that's why you
have Kerry
alternatively coming through and
laying out
the American position afterward,
which very
clearly talks about swaps that
are agreed
upon between the parties and
addresses that
concern.
And actually even the resolution
itself, to
some extent, addresses that
concern, when
it has -- when it says that
swaps will be
part of -- will have to be
agreed to between
the parties.
So, I really question the notion
that this
resolution fundamentally
reorients overall
the negotiating terms of the
two-state solution.
But I agree that the U.N.
Security Council
is ultimately and has been quite
anti-Israel
in its various positions over
the years.
The reason to abstain is because
the language
wasn't American policy and
because the venue
is not as credible as it could
be if it was
more balanced in its approach
and actually
dealt more seriously with other
issues that
Jim mentioned, like Syria and
didn't single
out the Israelis.
So I would argue that the
language doesn't
fundamentally change anything.
Settlements
are still a huge problem. But,
at the same
time, you know, yes, but
settlements are still
a huge problem, but still this
is better than
any of the alternatives I saw
out there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Jeffrey,
this is the
strongest alliance that's
existed in the world
for decades. And how does what
happened in
literally one -- couple of
sentences at the
U.N. Security Council with only
about three
or four weeks left in an
administration change
that alliance?
JAMES JEFFREY: It won't change
the alliance
fundamentally, because we'll
have a new administration
that gets to start from zero.
But it will start with a new
international
status. Here's where I would
disagree with
Ilan. He's right about 465. He
forgot to add
that that was passed 36 years
ago. Since then,
we haven't seen any language
like this. And
that language does have an
impact at the international
level, as Israel tries to form
formal and
informal alliances on things
like the fight
against ISIS in the Sinai with
Egypt, one
of the countries that sponsored
the resolution,
and deconflict our operations in
Syria and
Lebanon with Russia.
These things do count in
international relations.
And this is a very bad step.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Jeffrey,
Ilan Goldenberg,
thank you both.
ILAN GOLDENBERG: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We turn now to
domestic
politics and potential changes
ahead under
President Trump, specifically
changes in Washington,
where Mr. Trump has pledged to
-- quote -- "drain
the swamp."
Lisa Desjardins reports.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: America
deserve a government that can
work.
LISA DESJARDINS: He repeatedly
rallied supporters
with the promise, as candidate
and as president-elect.
DONALD TRUMP: My contract with
the American
voter begins with a plan to end
government
corruption and to take our
country back from
the special interests. I want
the entire corrupt
Washington establishment to hear
and heed
the words. We're going to drain
the swamp
of corruption in Washington,
D.C.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: And, as
president-elect,
Donald Trump has laid out some
specifics.
Consider Trump's Contract With
the American
voter, the blueprint for his
first 100 days
as president.
The very first item? Amending
the Constitution
to put term limits on members of
Congress,
six years tops for House
members, 12 years
for senators. A little farther
down, there's
a five-year ban on White House
and congressional
officials becoming lobbyists
after they leave
government, and just under that,
a lifetime
ban on his White House officials
from ever
lobbying for foreign
governments.
Mr. Trump is not the first to
make with this
cry. Consider then-candidate
Obama in 2008.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
The key is whether or not we
have got priorities
that are working for you, as
opposed to those
who have been dictating the
policy in Washington
lately. And that's mostly
lobbyists and special
interests. We have got to put an
end to that.
LISA DESJARDINS: President Obama
banned former
lobbyists from serving in his
White House,
but he also gave some waivers.
As for Mr.
Trump, some of those he's picked
to help him
drain the swamp also happen to
be longtime
Washington hands.
Mick Mulvaney, his pick for
budget director,
is a three-term congressman. And
his health
secretary choice, Tom Price, has
been in Congress
for more than a decade.
Meantime, some question if Mr.
Trump is serious,
especially after former House
Speaker Newt
Gingrich said this to NPR last
week about
the drain the swamp motto:
NEWT GINGRICH (R), Former
Speaker of the House:
I'm told he now disclaims that.
He now says
it was cute, but he doesn't want
to use it
anymore.
LISA DESJARDINS: Gingrich issued
a full reversal
the next day, saying he was
wrong and the
president-elect Trump is indeed
serious about
-- quote -- "draining the
swamp."
I'm joined by two guests with
careers focused
on how Washington works.
Paul Miller is founder and
president of the
National Institute for Lobbying
and Ethics.
And Sheila Krumholz is executive
director
of the Center for Responsive
Politics.
Thanks to you both.
Paul Miller, let's start with
you.
Clearly, voters have a message
for Washington.
They feel that those in power
may not be enriching
themselves or may not be
connected to the
rest of the country. Donald
Trump is responding
to that with some of these
ideas, like a lobbying
ban.
Do lobbyists understand that
argument, and
how do you react to what Mr.
Trump is proposing?
PAUL MILLER, Founder and
President, National
Institute for Lobbying and
Ethics: We understand
it. I'm not sure the rest of
Washington gets
it, i.e., Congress.
This election wasn't about
banning lobbyists.
This was about gridlock in
Washington. And
members of Congress have the
ability to vet
on or to pass legislation. We do
not. So,
yes, we do get that.
The things Mr. Trump is talking
about, one,
I would deem several of them
unconstitutional,
and the others just unworkable
based on the
system that we have in place
today.
LISA DESJARDINS: First,
lobbyists aren't without
influence. To put all of
Washington's problems
on the elected, is that
completely fair?
PAUL MILLER: I would say yes.
I mean, I don't have a voter
card, unless
I missed it that day that it was
handed out
when I became a lobbyist that
said, you get
to go to the House or Senate
floor and vote
on legislation, or you get to go
to the White
House and take that magic pen
and sign legislation
into law.
I'm not the one sending myself
fund-raising
notices asking for money. So,
members of Congress
and the administration could
just do their
thing, and they don't have to
say, hey, it's
the lobbyists' fault. It's their
fault.
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, what is
the problem
with saying, if you choose to
work for government,
you must for five years after
that not become
a lobbyist for government? Why
is that -- what
problem is there with that?
PAUL MILLER: Because the way
some of the -- again,
we haven't seen all the details
of what Mr.
Trump is proposing. It's always
the devil
is in those details, but some of
the legislation
that is being proposed by
members of the House
that are out, this five-year ban
is for executive
-- members of the executive
branch.
It doesn't now say a member of
Congress who
leaves, that you have to now
have a five-year
ban on what you do. There's only
a two-year
cooling-off period for current
members of
Congress and staff.
So, now you're going to say, for
executive
branch officials, it's five
years.
LISA DESJARDINS: But do you have
a problem
with that on its own?
PAUL MILLER: I do on the
five-year, yes. The
two-year is fine by my standard.
This is an honor system program
anyway. My
issue with this whole thing is
that, one,
where else in America, what
profession do
you tell them that they cannot
practice their
craft after they leave a job?
You talk about
the voters today. They don't
want career politicians.
So you should want people coming
in and out
of government, and today this
ban prohibits
that.
LISA DESJARDINS: Sheila
Krumholz, what do
you think about what Donald
Trump is doing
here? Is it time to restrict
lobbying activities
for those people who work for
us? Is it time
for this conversation? What do
you make of
this?
SHEILA KRUMHOLZ, Executive
Director, Center
for Responsive Politics: Well,
we're overdue
for the conversation.
And actually it's one that we
had in the last
-- the first term of the Obama
administration,
when he campaigned in 2008 in
particular.
But it's easy to score points on
bashing Washington.
That's just a perennial on any
presidential
campaign.
And lobbyists come in for most
of the slugs.
LISA DESJARDINS: I see Paul...
(CROSSTALK)
(LAUGHTER)
SHEILA KRUMHOLZ: And it is an
industry that
I think bears more scrutiny,
because their
whole job, their mission is to
buy and trade
influence.
They have access. So, if you
want to sell
a product and you need to
navigate the halls
of power and you're not familiar
with Washington
or how legislation gets passed
or how regulations
get stopped, it is immensely
helpful to be
able to afford a lobbyist to
help you navigate.
LISA DESJARDINS: So, what you're
saying, they
play an important role in
Washington.
SHEILA KRUMHOLZ: Lobbyists
absolutely play
an important role, and they
provide information.
And information is always good.
More information
is better.
LISA DESJARDINS: But then my
question to you
both, though, is clearly do you
also place
all the blame with Washington on
only our
elected officials? Or what else
in Washington
culturally needs to change?
You know, Donald Trump says
draining the swamp,
but he's tapping into something
here about
how voters feel toward all of
Washington.
From your point of view, Sheila,
what needs
to change culturally in
Washington?
SHEILA KRUMHOLZ: Well, I think
we need to
have a conversation about how
things really
work in our democracy.
And from our perspective, of
course, we study
campaign finance. So, from our
perspective,
a major part of the problem and
the role is
money in politics, so how money
is raised,
the role of lobbyists in raising
it, and how
the system is kind of mutually
beneficial
between candidates, members of
Congress, and
lobbyists who help them, both
with legislation,
crafting legislation, as well as
with raising
funds for their reelection.
LISA DESJARDINS: Paul, one other
idea that
Donald Trump says he will launch
on day one
is a constitutional amendment to
term-limit
politicians. You say that
elected officials
are the problem.
And I did some research and
looked over the
past years. It turns out if you
look at the
data that members of the House
and Senate
generally 87 to 89 percent of
them return
each year. That's not a lot of
turnover. That's
not a lot of fresh views
necessarily in Congress.
What do you think of this idea
for term limits?
You're critical of elected
officials. Is this
a way to solve that problem?
PAUL MILLER: Well, let me start
first by saying
-- correct something. Lobbyists
aren't hired
to buy people or buy members of
Congress.
We provide a valuable role in
the system of
government.
We provide information. You go
to any House
or Senate office today and look
at the staff
that they have there, you're
talking about
20-something folks who don't
have expertise
in all areas that they're
responsible. They
may handle four or five
different issues,
and yet to say we're buying them
is just again
one of those...
LISA DESJARDINS: You're saying
you have expertise
that these young staffers do
not.
PAUL MILLER: We do, and that
they need.
And so to your other question
about term limits,
we already have term limits. If
people voted
in larger numbers, you could
take people and
say, OK, we want them out. But
you know what?
Since 2010, the turnover rate
has been higher.
We have, I think, three-quarters
of the Congress
has turned over since 2010, if
my numbers
are correct.
So we do have the ability to
vote people out.
There's your term limits. You
just have to
get more people to want to vote.
LISA DESJARDINS: All right, a
conversation
about term limits and lobbying
and government
that will continue.
Paul Miller, thank you so much.
Sheila Krumholz, thank you for
joining us.
SHEILA KRUMHOLZ: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
New York City
principal who's finding
solutions within New
York's segregated schools; and
two television
critics with their picks for the
top programs
of the hot 2016 season.
But first: 2016 has been a wild
ride, one
that we're not likely to forget
anytime soon,
much of it focused on politics,
but many things
happened in the world of science
and technology
as well.
William Brangham starts our
review for our
weekly segment, the Leading
Edge.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Indeed, we
wanted to look
at some of the more remarkable
discoveries
and innovations, and setbacks
that we saw
in the scientific world this
year.
And so we welcome back our very
own science
correspondent, Miles O'Brien.
Welcome.
MILES O'BRIEN: Good to be here,
William.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, everyone
is doing their
year-end best-of list for 2016.
Let's do ours.
Scientifically, what's top of
your list?
MILES O'BRIEN: Let's start with
basic research,
shall we, the real hard-core
science.
The biggest one by far was a
historic find
announced in February, the
detection of gravity
waves. The Laser Interferometer
Gravitational-Wave
Observatory, or LIGO, confirmed
one of Einstein's
major predictions about the
nature of gravity,
namely, that the merging of two
black holes
should send subtle gravity waves
rippling
across space.
DAVID REITZE, Executive
Director, Laser Interferometer
Gravitational-Wave Observatory:
Ladies and
gentlemen, we have detected
gravitational
waves. We did it.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
MILES O'BRIEN: Excited
scientists there.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Yes.
MILES O'BRIEN: LIGO scientists
managed to
find those waves measuring tiny
contractions
and expansions of space itself.
They did this with two massive
laser facilities,
one in Louisiana, one in
Washington state,
a pair of the most precise
rulers ever built,
if you will.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So why is this
scientific
discovery, why is this so high
on everyone's
list?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well, it's as the
scientists
discovered a new language and
then learned
it. And they can now directly
observe much
more precise, much more
fundamental forces
of nature, which opens up a
whole new realm
of experiments in precision.
It's like they used to be able
to see the
puddles, and now they can see
the whole rainstorm.
So, it adds fidelity to their
quest.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, let's stay
in space.
What other big discoveries,
innovations, what
else did we see out there?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well, I'm always
watching for
the possibility that there might
be life out
there. I assume you are too.
NASA's Kepler space telescope
added over 1,500
new exoplanets to the registry
in 2016, the
most...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Exoplanets.
MILES O'BRIEN: Exoplanets, these
are planets
that would be around another
solar system.
And right around a dozen of them
are in a
so-called habitable zone, the
Goldilocks site,
where there might in fact
potentially be the
conditions for life.
The total catalog now is 3,500
planets, a
smaller handful in the habitable
zone. No
one has checked in yet, no
aliens so far.
A little closer to home, NASA's
Juno spacecraft
also entered orbit around
Jupiter. Juno sensors
will collect data on the gas
giant up close
in hopes of understanding how
Jupiter formed
and evolved.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, these are
all unmanned
missions that you have been
describing.
I know there has been a lot of
effort in putting
us humans out into space. How
has that been
going?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well, the road to
Mars is long
and winding, to say the least,
William.
Private companies are running
resupply missions
to the space station while
testing technology.
The results have been mixed,
frankly. Among
the thrill of victory
highlights, in April,
a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket booster
landed upright
on a remote barge at sea. It was
a spectacular
picture, and they stuck it.
But there were some agony in
defeat moments
as well. SpaceX, most notably in
September,
an explosion occurred during an
engine test
on the launchpad. It destroyed
the rocket,
its satellite payload, and a lot
of launch
facilities.
It was the second Falcon 9
failure in 15 months.
So, whether SpaceX can deliver
on its promise
of providing cheaper access to
space without
compromising safety, that
remains an open
question at the end of this
year.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's talk a
little bit
about human health. And we have
seen this
year scientists talking ever so
cautiously
about ending epidemics like the
HIV epidemic.
But insect-born diseases
certainly came roaring
back with a vengeance this year.
MILES O'BRIEN: They certainly
became in the
realm of household lexicons,
when you start
talking about things like Zika.
It actually
became a household term because
of the global
outbreak that occurred.
And scientists in Brazil linked
this mosquito-borne
virus to a rise in microcephaly
and other
severe fetal brain defects. More
than 90,000
Zika infections reported in
Brazil in the
first few months of 2016. The
U.S. has seen
relatively fewer cases, about
5,000 known
infections.
The numbers on birth defects are
still rolling
in, but so far in the U.S., 11
percent of
the Zika cases during pregnancy
have resulted
in birth defects, while Brazil's
rate is closer
to 40 percent. Now, scientists
are trying
to find some solutions to all
this.
A vaccine, of course, would be
great, but
they're also in Brazil using
genetically modified
mosquitoes, deploying these
insects that are
tweaked in such a way that they
have a fatal
gene that would spread in the
wild, sort of
a suicide gene. We will see if
that works.
KARLA TEPEDINO, Zika Researcher:
The beauty
about this technique is that it
can reach
the mosquitoes where no other
technique can
find it. We're using mosquitoes
to fight themselves.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: On the subject
of genetic
modification, where are we with
the technique
known as CRISPR? This has been
heralded for
a year or so as one of the
greatest potential
discoveries.
MILES O'BRIEN: As you know,
William, CRISPR
a breakthrough gene editing
technique using
proteins extracted from a type
of bacteria.
Researchers are able to easily
target specific
DNA sequences, snip them and
replace them
with whatever they want. This
year, scientists
in China used CRISPR for the
first time to
modify a human cell. They moved
immune cells
from a cancer patient, disabled
the gene which
makes them less effective
against cancer and
then reinjected them back into
the patient.
Now, that's an exciting
prospect, to have
these kind of super-duper immune
cells going
after cancer. We don't know yet
if it's working,
though. The results aren't in.
So we will
watch that in 2017.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's talk a
little bit
about technology.
Computers are getting faster.
They're getting
smarter. There's a lot of talk
about A.I.
and artificial intelligence. If
anywhere,
are we seeing this play out in
the world today?
MILES O'BRIEN: Right in front of
us on the
road, William.
We're seeing self-driving cars
appear much
faster than I think we are
probably ready
for. In parts of Pittsburgh now,
you can order
up a self-driving Uber. The
human being is
there to grab the wheel just in
case, but,
basically, we are well on our
way to a world
where we're not necessarily
driving our cars
anymore.
This past year, though, we did
have the first
death of a person using a
self-driving component
of the Tesla Model S. So, that's
a little
piece of history and a reminder.
What Tesla
will tell you is, it's still, on
a per-mile
basis, much safer than human
beings driving.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Miles, before
you go, the
world of astronomy this week
lost one of its
luminaries, Vera Rubin. Can you
tell us a
little bit about her?
MILES O'BRIEN: You know,
William, Vera Rubin
was an astronomer who changed
the way we think
about the universe and forced
the scientific
community to change the way it
treated women.
In the 1970s, she realized that
galaxies are
spinning too fast, that they
would really
fly apart if they relied simply
on the gravity
of the things we can see around
them. She
knew there had to be something
else there,
a lot of something.
And this is what led to the
discovery of what
we now call dark matter. We
don't know exactly
what it is yet. There is a lot
of ideas about
it, but we haven't seen it just
yet.
But Vera Rubin was right there
at the beginning,
among the first female
astronomers, blazed
a trail for many others. And
many great astronomers
today really just stand on her
shoulders.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Miles O'Brien,
thanks so much for being here.
MILES O'BRIEN: Pleasure,
William.
HARI SREENIVASAN: New York City
has many distinctions,
but one of its more dubious ones
is that it
has one of the most segregated
school systems
in the country.
Schools with predominantly black
and brown
students fall way behind
majority white schools
in achievement levels.
Tonight, special correspondent
Charlayne Hunter-Gault,
in her regular series on
solutions to racism,
talks with a principal in the
Brownsville
section of Brooklyn who is
attempting to defy
the odds.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Nadia
Lopez, thank
you for joining us.
NADIA LOPEZ, Principal, Mott
Hall Bridges
Academy: Thank you for having
me.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: You
started a school
in one of the poorest and also
one of the
most violent areas of New York
City, Brownsville.
Why?
NADIA LOPEZ: Pretty much, the
Department of
Education decided that the area
of need was
Brownsville, and my proposal fit
the bill.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What
kind of proposal
was it?
NADIA LOPEZ: My proposal really
was a STEM-focused
school at the time, science,
technology, engineering
and math.
So I wanted to empower children
of color to
be represented in industries
that are under-represented
by people of color.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: But you
described
your early days at this school
as insane.
Why? And how insane did it get?
NADIA LOPEZ: I literally had a
child set fire
to the bathroom. I would have
children choke
each other out, to the point
that the eyes
would start rolling back.
I had parents come to my office,
put down
their bags and ready to fight
just because
they thought I might have said
something to
their child that was what they
considered
out of pocket or inappropriate.
There was
challenges in terms of the
academics.
And so these children were made
to feel as
though they weren't going to
accomplish much.
And, unfortunately, they came
from households
where parents weren't as
educated.
So, it started with the
children, and then
the parents soon feel in line,
but that took
hard work.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: But you
also talked
about teachers that you had to
work with because
they were not engaged.
NADIA LOPEZ: One of the things
that I had
to do with my teachers was to
actually walk
them around the community for
them to see
what we're up against every
single day.
And so, once my teachers were
able to see
it from the ground, by us
actually walking
through the housing developments
and seeing
for themselves the lack of
employment, the
lack of resources, so many young
men who are
on the streets at 12:00, 1:00 in
the afternoon
who are doing nothing, this is
drawing our
kids every single day.
So, when they leave us at 2:30
or 3:00 in
the afternoon, that's all they
know, to hang
out on the streets and have no
other purpose.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So,
actually having
the teachers see where these
young people
come from helped them to be more
engaged?
NADIA LOPEZ: Yes.
We have to start engaging in the
solutions
to combat what are the problems
that exist
here in Brownsville. When you
sit with a child
who's been misbehaving, and they
talk about
the anger that they have had
since they were
6 because their father left, or
you speak
to a child who themselves have
had children,
right, in middle school, or you
have a child
who's competing with seven other
kids in a
household and they live in a
two-bedroom apartment,
again, the judgment people pass
is like, well,
their parents could have made
better decisions.
But lack of education, lack of
resources can
cause history to repeat itself.
And so, sometimes,
these children just need
somebody to listen
to them. Sometimes, they just
need a safe
space where they can be
distracted with something
good, because all they see in
the media is
someone like them dying. All
they know is
that prison is an option.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What, in
your experience,
is relevant and replicable in
other schools
in the same situation as your
school is?
NADIA LOPEZ: I literally take
all of my sixth-graders.
Every single year, we walk over
the Brooklyn
Bridge.
I want them to understand that
there is a
connection between their past,
their present
and their future. So, their past
is fifth
grade, their present is while
they're here
with us in middle school, but
their future
is, as we walk across this
bridge, seeing
what is lying ahead.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: And
what's been some
of the experiences? Because you
have talked
about the fact that these kids
have never
been across a bridge. They grab
onto you.
NADIA LOPEZ: They do. They are
fearful. They
are fearful that the bridge will
collapse.
They are fearful that they won't
make it over.
And these are some of the
toughest kids who
can be the most challenging, who
teachers
will say they are disrespectful
and will grab
onto a teacher and be like,
please don't let
me fall.
We have taken them to the South
Street Seaport,
and they just sit and watch the
water, because
they have never just seen boats
or had opportunities
of just having that experience.
And so, for hours, when I first
started doing
it as just a special needs
teacher, the kids
sat for two or three hours, and
it was the
most peaceful and serene scene
that you have
ever seen.
And shouldn't every child have
that opportunity
to not hear gunshots, to not
feel that they're
not safe?
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So, what
do you think
the systemic solutions are to
this?
NADIA LOPEZ: First off, we need
to have a
conversation.
There are a lot of people making
decisions
at the top, and they're not
willing to sit
with us in the trenches and look
in our classrooms
and ask the questions: What is
the challenge
here? What do you need?
Our budgets aren't made for all
of the things
that they are asking us to do.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What's
at stake?
NADIA LOPEZ: If we don't show
up, then we
lose generations of children,
and we're just
repeating what I often say is
generational
genocide, that when our children
aren't learning
here in our classrooms, then
they can't teach
the next generation to be
better, they can't
teach them to aspire, to want
more.
That's why we plant their feet
in the places
we want them to go. We take them
to high schools.
We take them to colleges. We
bring people
in from the outside who have
various careers
in industries that they're not
represented,
because when do those people
ever come to
Brownsville and tell them their
stories?
And that's the other thing that
we fail to
do. We fail to share our
stories. I think
what was significant about mine
is that people
were like, here's this principal
who was about
to quit because she said she
felt broken.
And it got to a point where I
felt like I
couldn't be the superhero. I
can't act like
I'm going to show up to work
every single
day and this is easy and I can
do it.
No. I'm tired. And it's OK,
because all of
us hit that wall, right? And
what was resounding
is that the world, the world
said, education
is important and was willing to
step up and
say, we want to help these
children.
And I'm so grateful to that.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: You said
in the book
that you were moved by the power
of education
to transform even the most
hardened students.
There's a lesson there. There's
a solution.
NADIA LOPEZ: This community has
heard the
negative for so long.
What my team and I are doing is
combating
that. And every day, we're
telling them that
they are Brownsville's
brilliance, that they
are those diamonds and they can
shine bright,
that they are scholars, they are
lifelong
learners.
We're pouring into them the
positive that
they so deserve, so that they
can thrive.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Well,
Nadia Lopez,
thank you very much.
NADIA LOPEZ: Well, thank you for
having me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now our series
on some of
the best work in arts and
letters this year.
Jeffrey Brown looks back at a
big year in
television and video.
JEFFREY BROWN: A new golden age
of television?
Well, these days, we talk more
of peak television,
and some wonder if there's now
simply too
much TV, including too much
really good and
even great programming.
And it comes at us from all
kinds of producers
and platforms, over the air,
cable, streaming.
What's a consumer to do? What's
a television
critic to do?
We asked two of them to help us
look at the
best of 2016, Eric Deggans of
NPR, and Alan
Sepinwall the digital culture
site Uproxx.
Welcome to both of you. Good
luck in sorting
this out for all of us.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Eric, let me
start with you.
Out of the hundreds of shows, we
asked you
to pick a few to just run
through and tell
us about just to kick this off.
ERIC DEGGANS, National Public
Radio: Sure.
I guess I'm a sucker for new
programming.
All of my top five are new shows
this year,
"Full Frontal With Samantha
Bee," "Daily Show"
alum who has a potent new show
about politics
on TBS.
"This Is Us" on NBC, a wonderful
new family
drama that really breaks the
boundaries of
drama on television.
"People V. O.J. Simpson:
American Crime Story,"
an amazing scripted retelling of
the O.J.
Simpson trial and verdict.
"O.J.: Made in America," a
five-part documentary
film made by ESPN about O.J.
Simpson as well,
much more extensive than
"American Crime Story."
And "Atlanta" on FX, an amazing
drama featuring
three young men trying to make
it in Atlanta's
rap scene.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, we're
going to come
back to that last one in more
depth, but,
first, Alan, your pick. Run
through it for
us.
ALAN SEPINWALL, Uproxx: All
right.
So, like Eric, I really loved
the two O.J.
Shows and was kind of stunned
that the TV
event of the year wasn't one,
but two different
retellings of the O.J. Simpson
story, each
focusing on different and
exciting aspects
of it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, who would
have thought
that, huh?
ALAN SEPINWALL: It's not even
like the 20th
anniversary. It just happened.
And it was
wonderful.
There's a great
musical/comedy/drama/romance
on the CW called "Crazy
Ex-Girlfriend," co-created
by Rachel Bloom that's
delightful.
"Atlanta," like Eric, I think
Donald Glover
did a marvelous entry into
television.
And the best new show of the
year and the
best show of the year, as far as
I was concerned,
is "Horace and Pete," which
turned up on Louis
C.K.'s Web site, of all places.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, we're
going to come
back to that one.
But, first, you both mentioned
"Atlanta."
Let's take a quick look at a
clip from that.
This is the main character,
Earn. He is managing
his cousin, who is a local
rapper.
Let's look at that.
ACTOR: Hello, cousin. How are
you today?
DONALD GLOVER, Actor: Listen,
man, can you
do me a huge favor and put $20
in my account,
like for ASAP? Like, you got the
help me out,
man.
ACTOR: All right.
DONALD GLOVER: Really? Thanks,
man. You're
saving my ass.
ACTOR: OK, man. Well, you know,
I got to go
now.
DONALD GLOVER: OK. Cool. So,
what you guys
doing right now? You dudes do
that deal?
ACTOR: I do not know what you
mean.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so,
Eric, that's
the main character, who is
played by Donald
Glover, who is also the creator
and writer
of the series. What do you like
so much about
it?
ERIC DEGGANS: What I love about
"Atlanta"
is that it talks about a lot of
different
things without really talking
about those
things.
We see these three young
brothers trying to
make it in Atlanta. You saw
Donald Glover's
Earn Marks, who is an aspiring
rap manager.
He wants to manage his cousin,
who is an up-and-coming
rapper. And they have an odd
friend who is
sort of like a black version of
Kramer on
"Seinfeld," and very eccentric,
and getting
into all kinds of adventures.
And we see great stories
involving race and
class and difference told in a
way where it's
just kind of presented to you,
and, as a viewer,
you have to decide how you feel
about it.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Alan,
you told us
about the show "Horace and
Pete." It's set
in a dive bar in Brooklyn, I
think.
And we're going to look at a
quick clip here
to. This is a scene with Louis
C.K. and Steve
Buscemi.
LOUIS C.K., Actor: I'm actually
saying it's
because you're so good at your
job. That's
why I'm saying it.
It's like a pyramid of rags,
like you decided
to put a pyramid of rags here.
And you're
really good at closing. That's
why -- you
understand that that's like a
compliment?
I'm saying you're so good. Why
is that like
that? That's all.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, Alan, it's
part of this
new distribution, right, Louis
C.K. direct
to his fans. Tell us a little
bit about that.
ALAN SEPINWALL: I mean, the show
arrived without
warning. Just one Saturday at
the end of January,
Louis C.K. sent out an e-mail
saying, here's
my new show, "Horace and Pete."
Watch it here.
I hope you like it.
He had somehow in secret filmed
a show with
Steve Buscemi, Edie Falco, Alan
Alda, and
Jessica Lange. Nobody knew about
it. It just
appeared out of the ether.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, part of
this, what is
going on, clearly, is so much
great acting
talent. And we asked the two of
you to pick
one performance out of the many.
Again, I understand how
difficult this was.
But, Eric, you picked Sterling
Brown, who
appeared in two big series, the
O.J. drama
and the NBC hit "This Is Us."
Let's take a look at him. Here
he is in the
latter, "This Is Us," in a
Christmas scene.
STERLING BROWN, Actor: Hey. Did
William ever
mention Jesse?
ACTRESS: Not to me.
ACTRESS: I think it's a boy at
school.
STERLING BROWN: Whose?
ACTRESS: The one with two dads.
STERLING BROWN: What do you mean
two dads?
ACTRESS: Dad, grandpa's gay, or
at least bi.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Eric,
tell us about
Sterling Brown.
ERIC DEGGANS: Well, what's
wonderful about
Sterling, in "This Is Us," he
plays a character
who was adopted into a white
family, a black
man raised in a white family.
And he's been searching for his
biological
father. And he finds him and
welcomes him
into his home, to find out that
he's dying.
And he had always thought that
no one knew
where his biological father was.
But he found
out that his adopted mother did
know and had
kept that from him for years.
There is a pivotal scene where
they have a
holiday dinner. The whole family
is there.
And he begins to react to this
knowledge and
starts crying. And that just
shows you how
real, how creative, how amazing
this actor
is.
And the fact that he appeared in
both this
show, which I think is the best
drama on network
television right now, and also
appeared in
"American Crime Story: The
People v. O.J.
Simpson" story, playing Chris
Darden, the
prosecutor, that's an amazing
achievement
for an actor. And he did a great
job in both
roles.
JEFFREY BROWN: Alan, you picked
Phoebe Waller-Bridge
in the British comedy "Fleabag,"
which is
about a young woman negotiating
love and relationships.
Let's take a quick look at a
clip from that.
PHOEBE WALLER-BRIDGE, Actress:
You know that
feeling when a guy you like
sends you a text
at 2:00 on a Tuesday night
asking if he can
come and find you, and then you
open to the
door to him like you have almost
forgotten
he's coming over?
Oh, hi.
ACTOR: Hey.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Alan,
tell us about
this show.
ALAN SEPINWALL: Phoebe
Waller-Bridge created
"Fleabag." She was adapting it
from a play
she had done.
She has this remarkably
expressive face. And
often the best parts of the show
are just
her turning to the camera and
not even saying
anything, just like widening her
eyes slightly
to let you know how her
character is reacting
to all of these crazy or
degrading or downright
tragic things that are happening
to her.
And it starts off as mainly sort
of a sex
farce and becomes something much
deeper and
much sadder and much more
profound. And she
-- I had never heard of her
this. And now
I'm going to want to see
everything she does.
She's a major talent.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, just
both of you,
in our last minute here, I
started off by
talking about the renaissance or
the peak
television.
What do you see, broadly
speaking, Eric, when
you look at the quantity vs.
quality? Where
are we today?
ERIC DEGGANS: Well, what's
amazing about this
moment is not only do we have a
lot of quantity;
we do have a lot of quality,
because that
quantity is coming from media
outlets or TV
outlets that are trying to build
their brand
by creating great television.
So, we have Hulu. We have
Amazon. We have
Netflix. We even have Crackle, a
Web site
that has Jerry Seinfeld's
"Comedians in Cars"
about coffee, and now they're
doing scripted,
original television.
JEFFREY BROWN: Alan, last
question to you.
That's if you can find all those
programs,
right, and figure out what you
want.
ALAN SEPINWALL: What's amazing
is, Uproxx,
we do this television critics
poll where we
reach out to about 60 TV critics
across the
country, including Eric, and we
ask them to
name their 10 favorite shows of
the year.
And I get the ballots back, and
I haven't
even heard of some of these
shows, and it's
my job to watch television.
That's how much
great stuff is out there. It's
ridiculous.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right.
Alan Sepinwall, go back the
watching, from
Uproxx, and, Eric Deggans, thank
you both
very much.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On our
Facebook page, you
can find more of our TV critics'
recommendations.
Plus, tomorrow on the
"NewsHour," our best
of 2016 series continues, with
Washington
Post film critic Ann Hornaday
and Mike Sargent
of Pacifica Radio.
Jeff asked them about their
favorite films
of the year, including the
sci-fi movie "Arrival,"
and "Moonlight," directed by
Barry Jenkins.
ANN HORNADAY, Film Critic, The
Washington
Post: It's a very tender,
observant -- as
Mike said, it takes all the kind
of tropes
of a coming-of-age story and
turns them inside
out and makes them so intimate.
And Jenkins' kind of -- his
point of view
is just a little askance, it's a
little askew,
so that you're not getting the
conventional
beats of a person's life. You're
getting the
in-between times, which are
sometimes even
more meaningful.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, what do you
love about
"Arrival," Mike?
MIKE SARGENT, Film Critic,
Pacifica Radio:
The movie is in many ways like a
large "Twilight
Zone" episode.
But it's beautifully shot. It's
beautifully
acted. The aliens are very
powerful and meaningful.
And I don't want to give too
much away, but
the way in which the aliens
communicate is
such in an imaginative -- and
it's just a
beautiful film that to me works
on every level.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There have
been questions
raised concerning our report
that aired last
night on a Greek inventor who is
developing
a device that purports to turn
water into
power without requiring
additional energy.
Despite a team of Greek
scientists praising
the research, and the inclusion
of an independent
scientist dubious of the work,
the "NewsHour"
acknowledges that our reporting
of this segment
should have been more skeptical.
Our reporting and research
should always ask
more questions and seek greater
insight. We
are examining each step in our
process, and
we apologize to our audience for
the lapses
in this report.
The "PBS NewsHour" is dedicated
to presenting
clear and thorough reporting on
developments
in science and technology, and
we will be
following up with more reporting
on the important
subject of clean energy as soon
as possible.
And a news update.
Actress Debbie Reynolds was
hospitalized in
Los Angeles this evening of an
apparent stroke.
It came just a day after her
daughter Carrie
Fisher died. Reynolds lit up
Hollywood with
the classic "Singing in the
Rain" in 1952.
She went on to star in such
films as "The
Unsinkable Molly Brown" and "The
Singing Nun."
Online, a look at Debbie
Reynolds' daughter,
actress and author Carrie
Fisher, who died
on Tuesday, was also admired for
her openness
about her own struggles with
bipolar disorder
and substance abuse. In response
to her death,
fans took to social media in
tribute, sharing
their personal stories.
Plus, a look at the pros and
cons of choosing
original Medicare vs. a Medicare
Advantage
plan.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Hari Sreenivasan. Join us online
and again
here tomorrow evening.
We have an interview with Peter
Navarro, a
strong opponent of trade with
China and president-elect
Donald Trump's pick to run the
new White House
National Trade Council.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.